Theme
=====

Theming is a systematic way of customizing the outlook of pages in a Web
application. By applying a new theme, the overall appearance of a Web
application can be changed instantly and dramatically.

In Yii, each theme is represented as a directory consisting of view files,
layout files, and relevant resource files such as images, CSS files,
JavaScript files, etc.  The name of a theme is its directory name. All
themes reside under the same directory `WebRoot/themes`. At any time, only
one theme can be active.

> Tip: The default theme root directory `WebRoot/themes` can be configured
to be a different one. Simply configure the
[basePath|CThemeManager::basePath] and the [baseUrl|CThemeManager::baseUrl]
properties of the [themeManager|CWebApplication::themeManager] application
component to be the desired ones.

When we call [render|CController::render] or
[renderPartial|CController::renderPartial] to display a view, the
corresponding view file as well as the layout file will be looked for in
the currently active theme. And if found, those files will be rendered.
Otherwise, it falls back to the default location as specified by
[viewPath|CController::viewPath] and
[layoutPath|CWebApplication::layoutPath].

To activate a theme, set the [theme|CWebApplication::theme] property of
the Web application to be the name of the desired theme. This can be done
either in the [application
configuration](/doc/guide/basics.application#config) or during runtime in
controller actions.

> Note: Theme name is case-sensitive. If you attempt to activate a theme
that does not exist, `Yii::app()->theme` will return `null`.

Contents under a theme directory should be organized in the same way as
those under the [application base
path](/doc/guide/basics.application#base). For example, all view files
must be located under `views`, layout view files under `views/layouts`, and
system view files under `views/system`. Because the `views` directory may
contain security-sensitive data, it should be configured to prevent from
being accessed by Web users.

> Tip: Inside a theme view, we often need to link other theme resource
files. For example, we may want to show an image file under the theme's
`images` directory. Using the [baseUrl|CTheme::baseUrl] property of the
currently active theme, we can generate the URL for the image as follows,
~~~
[php]
Yii::app()->theme->baseUrl . '/images/FileName.gif'
~~~

<div class="revision">$Id$</div>